in this tree there is one of the most
extraordinary plant feathers it's one
animal that I don't need to sneak up on
oh this extraordinary creature is half
blind half deaf and this is just about
as fast as it can move that's what can
happen to you if you live on nothing but
leaves it's a slave it's not exactly an
enthusiastic leaf eater a couple of
half-hearted chews and the leaves go
straight down to its stomach leaves
however are not easily digested the
sleds technique is to give them time
then eventually this mobile compost heap
pulls itself together and starts on a
long and dangerous journey this is a
very unusual sight a sloth in a hurry
it wants to defecate and the only place
it's happily doing that oddly enough is
down on the ground it only does it about
once a week but why does it come down to
the ground to do it and why does it
nearly always choose to do so in exactly
the same place
whatever the reason it must be very
important for a sloth on the ground is
almost helpless any predator could
attack it and it doesn't have the speed
to escape why it comes down in this way
is a mystery nobody knows
now he's finished and Becky goes up to
the safety of the canopy leaves are not
very nutritious
the slows way of compensating for that
is not to eat more but to do less it's
claws hook over the branches so that the
sloth can hang without any effort of its
muscles which have been reduced to thin
ribbons and to save energy it spends
most of its time hanging around half
asleep in the treetops so with very
little muscle and a reaction time only a
quarter as fast as ours how does a sloth
day compare with our day in the time it
takes me to write a few letters the
Slayers just about manages to groove
itself while we have our lunch the slave
nibbles a few leaves and then as we form
a sequence for the series it's time for
another
you